Add some GHCup codes (#371)
haskellfoundation/error-message-index: message-index/messages/GHCup-00010/index.md

---
title: Unable to find a download for the requested version/distro

> summary: GHCup wasn't able to find a bindist for the request tool for the current platform

Reviewer: I think that the term "bindist" is a bit jargony - what about expanding it to "binary distribution" here to increase accessibility of the text?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: GHCup wasn't able to find a binary distribution for the requested tool for the current platform
```

severity: error
introduced: 0.1.19.0
---

> GHCup was asked to install a given version of a tool, but couldn't find download information in the [ghcup metadata](https://github.com/haskell/ghcup-metadata) and cannot proceed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GHCup was asked to install a given version of a tool, but couldn't find download information in the [GHCup's list of available tools](https://github.com/haskell/ghcup-metadata) and cannot proceed.
```
To eliminate jargon

As an example, on Alpine linux `x86_64`, we can't install GHC 8.8.3:
```
$ ghcup install ghc 8.8.3
[ Error ] [GHCup-00010] Unable to find a download for the requested version/distro.
[ Error ] Also check the logs in /home/hasufell/.ghcup/logs
```

> Both `ghcup list` and `ghcup tui` make it visible if there are bindists missing, e.g.:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both `ghcup list` and `ghcup tui` make it visible if there are binary distributions missing, e.g.:
```

✗  ghc  8.4.1   base-4.11.0.0             no-bindist
✗  ghc  8.4.2   base-4.11.1.0             no-bindist
✗  ghc  8.4.3   base-4.11.1.0             no-bindist
✗  ghc  8.4.4   base-4.11.1.0
✗  ghc  8.6.1   base-4.12.0.0             no-bindist
✗  ghc  8.6.2   base-4.12.0.0             no-bindist
✗  ghc  8.6.3   base-4.12.0.0             no-bindist
✗  ghc  8.6.4   base-4.12.0.0             no-bindist
✗  ghc  8.6.5   base-4.12.0.0
✗  ghc  8.8.1   base-4.13.0.0             no-bindist
✗  ghc  8.8.2   base-4.13.0.0             no-bindist
✗  ghc  8.8.3   base-4.13.0.0             no-bindist
✗  ghc  8.8.4   base-4.13.0.0
✗  ghc  8.10.1  base-4.14.0.0
✗  ghc  8.10.2  base-4.14.1.0
✗  ghc  8.10.3  base-4.14.1.0
✗  ghc  8.10.4  base-4.14.1.0
✗  ghc  8.10.5  base-4.14.2.0
✗  ghc  8.10.6  base-4.14.3.0
✗  ghc  8.10.7  base-4.14.3.0
✗  ghc  9.0.1   base-4.15.0.0
✗  ghc  9.0.2   base-4.15.1.0
✗  ghc  9.2.1   base-4.16.0.0
✗  ghc  9.2.2   base-4.16.1.0
✗  ghc  9.2.3   base-4.16.2.0
✗  ghc  9.2.4   base-4.16.3.0
✗  ghc  9.2.5   recommended,base-4.16.4.0
✗  ghc  9.4.1   base-4.17.0.0
✗  ghc  9.4.2   base-4.17.0.0
✗  ghc  9.4.3   base-4.17.0.0
✗  ghc  9.4.4   latest,base-4.17.0.0
```

> This indicates that support for this platform is sub-par. Currently the most affected are Alpine Linux `x86_64`, FreeBSD `x86_64`, Linux `armv7`, Linux `aarch64`, Darwin `aarch64` (only has versions for 8.10.7 onwards). More information can be seen here: [GHCup supported platforms](https://www.haskell.org/ghcup/install/#supported-platforms).

Reviewer: I'm not sure how to interpret "support for this platform is sub-par". It seems to say something negative, but not actionable or specific. Can it be made more specific?

Author: Yes, they will have to bother GHC HQ or pay me.

Author: Updated with links to issue trackers.

Reviewer: What about text like "The upstream project (e.g. GHC or HLS) does not provide supported binary distributions for the indicated version" then? The text as written makes it unclear to me whether the issue is GHC, GHCup, or support provided by the platform itself.

Reviewer: The new version seems clear to me.

> You can also check the current ghcup metadata (as time of writing it's version `0.0.7`) here: [https://github.com/haskell/ghcup-metadata/blob/develop/ghcup-0.0.7.yaml](https://github.com/haskell/ghcup-metadata/blob/develop/ghcup-0.0.7.yaml), which defines the bindists per tool and platform and [raise an issue there](https://github.com/haskell/ghcup-metadata/issues).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also check the current GHCup metadata (as time of writing it's version `0.0.7`) here: [https://github.com/haskell/ghcup-metadata/blob/develop/ghcup-0.0.7.yaml](https://github.com/haskell/ghcup-metadata/blob/develop/ghcup-0.0.7.yaml), which defines the bindists per tool and platform and [raise an issue there](https://github.com/haskell/ghcup-metadata/issues).
```

(or alternatively enclose in backticks to make it a reference to the command name)

Other reasons you might get this error:

* The version of the tool you specified doesn't exist at all, e.g. `ghcup install ghc blah`.

> * The version of the tool you specified wasn't added to GHCup yet, but will likely be added soon. Please [raise an issue here](https://github.com/haskell/ghcup-metadata/issues) and make sure to update ghcup to have access to the latest metadata: `ghcup upgrade`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The version of the tool you specified wasn't added to GHCup yet, but will likely be added soon. Please [raise an issue here](https://github.com/haskell/ghcup-metadata/issues) and make sure to update ghcup's internal list of available tools with `ghcup upgrade`.
```
Just to avoid having to explain what "ghcup metadata" is to new users.

---
title: Unable to find a download for the requested version/distro
summary: GHCup wasn't able to find a binary distribution for the requested tool for the current platform
severity: error
introduced: 0.1.19.0
---

> GHCup was asked to install a given version of a tool, but couldn't find download information in the [GHCup's list of available tools](https://github.com/haskell/ghcup-metadata) and cannot proceed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GHCup was asked to install a given version of a tool, but couldn't find download information in [GHCup's list of available tools](https://github.com/haskell/ghcup-metadata) and cannot proceed.
```
